{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1\fmodern Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green100\blue0;}

\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440

\pard\qc\b\fs36\cf2 MattrMindrScribe External API\par
\b\fs28 Integration Guide for Jamie\'92s Companion App\par
\pard\ql\b0\fs22\cf1\par

\b\fs28 1. Overview\b0\fs22\par
\par
MattrMindrScribe exposes three read-only API endpoints under \f1 /api/external/ \f0 that allow a companion Replit app to access Jamie\'92s transcripts, AI summaries, and audio/video media files. Authentication uses a static API key passed via the \f1 X-Api-Key \f0 header.\par
\par

\b\fs28 2. Authentication\b0\fs22\par
\par
\b Method: \b0 Static API Key via \f1 X-Api-Key \f0 header or \f1 Authorization: Bearer \f0 header\par
\b Base URL: \b0\f1 https://scribe.mattrmindr.com/api/external \f0\par
\par
Every request must include one of:\par
\f1   X-Api-Key: <your-api-key>\par
\f0 or:\par
\f1   Authorization: Bearer <your-api-key>\par
\f0\par
The API key is configured as the \f1 EXTERNAL_API_KEY \f0 environment variable on the MattrMindrScribe server. The key maps to Jamie\'92s user account via the \f1 EXTERNAL_API_USER_EMAIL \f0 environment variable (set to \f1 jamie@mattrmindr.com\f0 ).\par
\par
\b Error Responses:\b0\par
\bullet  \f1 401 \f0 \'97 Missing or invalid API key/token\par
\bullet  \f1 500 \f0 \'97 API key user not configured on server\par
\par

\b\fs28 3. Endpoints\b0\fs22\par
\par

\b\fs26 3.1 List Transcripts\b0\fs22\par
\par
\f1 GET /api/external/transcripts\f0\par
\par
Returns all transcripts for the authenticated user. Lightweight metadata only (no segments or summaries). Ordered by creation date, newest first.\par
\par
\b Response (200):\b0  Array of transcript objects:\par
\f1\fs20\par
[\par
  \{\par
    "id": "uuid-string",\par
    "filename": "deposition-2024-01-15.mp3",\par
    "description": "Smith v. Jones deposition",\par
    "status": "completed",\par
    "type": "audio",\par
    "duration": 3600,\par
    "fileSize": 45000000,\par
    "recordingType": "deposition",\par
    "practiceArea": "litigation",\par
    "createdAt": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",\par
    "folderId": "uuid-or-null",\par
    "folderName": "Smith v. Jones",\par
    "segmentCount": 450,\par
    "speakerCount": 3,\par
    "summaryCount": 2\par
  \}\par
]\par
\f0\fs22\par
\b Status values:\b0  \f1 pending \f0 | \f1 transcribing \f0 | \f1 diarizing \f0 | \f1 enhancing \f0 | \f1 completed \f0 | \f1 failed\f0\par
\b Type values:\b0  \f1 audio \f0 | \f1 video\f0\par
\par

\b\fs26 3.2 Get Full Transcript\b0\fs22\par
\par
\f1 GET /api/external/transcripts/:id/full\f0\par
\par
Returns a single transcript with all segments, AI summaries, and a presigned S3 media download URL (1-hour expiry). Returns \f1 404 \f0 if the transcript does not exist or does not belong to the authenticated user.\par
\par
\b Response (200):\b0\par
\f1\fs20\par
\{\par
  "id": "uuid-string",\par
  "filename": "deposition-2024-01-15.mp3",\par
  "description": "Smith v. Jones deposition",\par
  "status": "completed",\par
  "type": "audio",\par
  "duration": 3600,\par
  "fileSize": 45000000,\par
  "recordingType": "deposition",\par
  "practiceArea": "litigation",\par
  "createdAt": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",\par
  "folderName": "Smith v. Jones",\par
  "segments": [\par
    \{\par
      "startTime": 0.0,\par
      "endTime": 5.2,\par
      "speaker": "Speaker 1",\par
      "text": "Good morning, please state your name."\par
    \}\par
  ],\par
  "summaries": [\par
    \{\par
      "id": "uuid-string",\par
      "agentType": "legal-summary",\par
      "subType": "key-points",\par
      "summary": "The deposition covered...",\par
      "createdAt": "2024-01-15T12:00:00.000Z"\par
    \}\par
  ],\par
  "mediaUrl": "https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/...?X-Amz-..."\par
\}\par
\f0\fs22\par
\b Notes:\b0\par
\bullet  \f1 mediaUrl \f0 is a presigned S3 URL valid for 1 hour. It may be \f1 null \f0 if the media file is not in cloud storage.\par
\bullet  \f1 segments \f0 are ordered chronologically by \f1 startTime\f0 .\par
\bullet  \f1 summaries \f0 are ordered by creation date, newest first.\par
\bullet  \f1 agentType \f0 values include: \f1 legal-summary\f0 , \f1 general-summary\f0 , \f1 action-items\f0 , etc.\par
\par

\b\fs26 3.3 Get Media URL\b0\fs22\par
\par
\f1 GET /api/external/transcripts/:id/media\f0\par
\par
Returns just the presigned S3 media download URL for a specific transcript. Useful when you only need the audio/video file without transcript data.\par
\par
\b Response (200):\b0\par
\f1\fs20\par
\{\par
  "transcriptId": "uuid-string",\par
  "filename": "deposition-2024-01-15.mp3",\par
  "type": "audio",\par
  "mediaUrl": "https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/...?X-Amz-...",\par
  "expiresIn": 3600\par
\}\par
\f0\fs22\par
\b Error Responses:\b0\par
\bullet  \f1 404 \f0 \'97 Transcript not found or not owned by user\par
\bullet  \f1 400 \f0 \'97 Media file stored locally (not accessible externally)\par
\par

\b\fs28 4. Error Response Format\b0\fs22\par
\par
All error responses follow this format:\par
\f1\fs20\par
\{\par
  "error": "Human-readable error message"\par
\}\par
\f0\fs22\par
\b Common HTTP status codes:\b0\par
\bullet  \f1 200 \f0 \'97 Success\par
\bullet  \f1 400 \f0 \'97 Bad request (invalid parameters)\par
\bullet  \f1 401 \f0 \'97 Authentication required\par
\bullet  \f1 403 \f0 \'97 Invalid or expired token\par
\bullet  \f1 404 \f0 \'97 Resource not found\par
\bullet  \f1 500 \f0 \'97 Internal server error\par
\par

\b\fs28 5. Environment Variables Required on Scribe Server\b0\fs22\par
\par
\f1 EXTERNAL_API_KEY \f0 \'97 The static API key string (generate with \f1 openssl rand -hex 32\f0 )\par
\f1 EXTERNAL_API_USER_EMAIL \f0 \'97 Set to \f1 jamie@mattrmindr.com\f0\par
\par
These must be set on the EC2 server and PM2 restarted with \f1 --update-env \f0 or via full delete+start.\par
\par

\b\fs28 6. Agent Prompt for Jamie\'92s Companion App\b0\fs22\par
\par
Copy and paste the following prompt into the Replit Agent for Jamie\'92s companion app:\par
\par
\pard\li720\ri720\sa200
\f1\fs18\cf4\par
---BEGIN AGENT PROMPT---\par
\par
This app connects to the MattrMindrScribe API to read Jamie's legal transcripts, AI summaries, and media files. It is a read-only companion app.\par
\par
## API Configuration\par
\par
Base URL: https://scribe.mattrmindr.com/api/external\par
Authentication: X-Api-Key header (store the key as SCRIBE_API_KEY environment secret)\par
\par
All requests must include one of these headers:\par
  \{ "X-Api-Key": process.env.SCRIBE_API_KEY \}\par
  or: \{ "Authorization": "Bearer " + process.env.SCRIBE_API_KEY \}\par
\par
## Available Endpoints\par
\par
### 1. List All Transcripts\par
GET /api/external/transcripts\par
Returns: Array of transcript metadata objects (no segments/summaries)\par
Fields per transcript: id, filename, description, status, type, duration, fileSize, recordingType, practiceArea, createdAt, folderId, folderName, segmentCount, speakerCount, summaryCount\par
Status values: pending | transcribing | diarizing | enhancing | completed | failed\par
\par
### 2. Get Full Transcript\par
GET /api/external/transcripts/:id/full\par
Returns: Complete transcript with segments array, summaries array, and presigned mediaUrl\par
Each segment: \{ startTime, endTime, speaker, text \}\par
Each summary: \{ id, agentType, subType, summary, createdAt \}\par
mediaUrl: Presigned S3 URL valid for 1 hour (may be null)\par
\par
### 3. Get Media Download URL\par
GET /api/external/transcripts/:id/media\par
Returns: \{ transcriptId, filename, type, mediaUrl, expiresIn: 3600 \}\par
Use this when you only need the audio/video file\par
\par
## Error Handling\par
All errors return \{ "error": "message" \}\par
401 = missing/invalid API key\par
404 = transcript not found or not owned by user\par
500 = server error (retry after a moment)\par
\par
## Implementation Notes\par
- All data is read-only. There are no write endpoints.\par
- Media URLs expire after 1 hour. Fetch a new one via /media endpoint when needed.\par
- Transcripts in 'pending', 'transcribing', 'diarizing', or 'enhancing' status are still being processed. Poll the list endpoint or check status to see when they complete.\par
- The API returns all of Jamie's transcripts. Use the folderId/folderName fields to organize by case.\par
- Segments are ordered chronologically. Use startTime/endTime for playback sync.\par
- Audio files are typically MP3/M4A/WAV. Video files are typically MP4/MOV.\par
- S3 bucket is in us-east-2. Presigned URLs are direct S3 downloads.\par
\par
---END AGENT PROMPT---\par
\pard\ql\f0\fs22\cf1\par

\b\fs28 7. Setup Checklist\b0\fs22\par
\par
\pard{\pntext 1. }\fi-360\li720
Generate an API key: \f1 openssl rand -hex 32\f0\par
\pard{\pntext 2. }\fi-360\li720
Set \f1 EXTERNAL_API_KEY \f0 on the EC2 server (PM2 env or .env file)\par
\pard{\pntext 3. }\fi-360\li720
Set \f1 EXTERNAL_API_USER_EMAIL=jamie@mattrmindr.com \f0 on the EC2 server\par
\pard{\pntext 4. }\fi-360\li720
Restart PM2: \f1 pm2 delete mattrmindrscribe && pm2 start npm --name "mattrmindrscribe" -- run start\f0\par
\pard{\pntext 5. }\fi-360\li720
Set \f1 SCRIBE_API_KEY \f0 in Jamie\'92s companion Replit app (same key value)\par
\pard{\pntext 6. }\fi-360\li720
Paste the agent prompt from Section 6 into the companion app\'92s Replit Agent\par
\pard{\pntext 7. }\fi-360\li720
Test with: \f1 curl -H "X-Api-Key: YOUR_KEY" https://scribe.mattrmindr.com/api/external/transcripts\f0\par
\pard\ql\par
}
