{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
  {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
  {\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red44\green62\blue80;\red52\green73\blue94;\red22\green160\blue133;\red192\green57\blue43;\red127\green140\blue141;\red44\green62\blue80;\red255\green255\blue255;}
  \paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440

  {\pard\qc\sb0\sa200\f0\fs44\b\cf2 MattrMindrScribe\par}
  {\pard\qc\sb0\sa400\f0\fs36\b\cf3 Coworking & Sharing Feature\line Technical Specification\par}
  {\pard\qc\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf6 Prepared: March 21, 2026\line Status: Draft for Review\par}

  {\pard\sb0\sa0\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf6\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 1. Overview\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 Add collaborative sharing so users can invite other MattrMindrScribe users to view or edit their transcripts and folders. This enables legal teams to work together on transcript review, speaker correction, and annotation without exporting files back and forth.\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 Sharing is invitation-based (by email), permission-controlled (view-only or edit), and surfaced in a dedicated \b "Shared with Me"\b0  section in the sidebar navigation.\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 2. Current Architecture\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 The existing system uses owner-based access control:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Stack:\b0  React 18 / TypeScript / Vite (frontend), Express.js v5 / TypeScript (backend), PostgreSQL (database), Amazon S3 (file storage)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Auth:\b0  JWT-based (jsonwebtoken + bcryptjs), 7-day token expiry\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Data isolation:\b0  All queries filter by \f1 user_id = req.userId\f0 . No sharing or multi-user access exists today.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Key tables:\b0  \f1 users\f0 , \f1 transcripts\f0 , \f1 folders\f0 , \f1 transcript_segments\f0 , \f1 transcript_annotations\f0 , \f1 transcript_versions\f0 , \f1 transcript_summaries\f0\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b User identification:\b0  UUID primary key (\f1 gen_random_uuid()\f0 ), email (unique), password hash, role, subscription tier\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 3. Acceptance Criteria\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  A user can share a single transcript or an entire folder with another Scribe user by entering their email address\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  The sharing user selects a permission level: \b "View Only"\b0  or \b "Can Edit"\b0\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Shared transcripts and folders appear in a new "Shared with Me" section in the recipient\rquote s sidebar navigation\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  The "Shared with Me" section shows who shared each item and the permission level\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  View-only recipients can open and read transcripts but cannot edit segments, reassign speakers, add annotations, or delete\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Edit recipients can do everything the owner can except delete the transcript/folder or change sharing settings\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  The owner can see who they\rquote ve shared with, change permissions, or revoke access from a sharing panel\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Sharing a folder shares all transcripts inside it (including future additions) at the folder\rquote s permission level\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 4. Out of Scope (Phase 1)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Real-time collaborative editing (WebSocket sync, conflict resolution, operational transforms)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Email notifications when someone shares with you\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Public/link-based sharing (all sharing requires a Scribe account)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Transferring ownership of transcripts or folders\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Sharing with non-Scribe users or external parties\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf6\i Note: If two users with edit access modify the same transcript simultaneously, last-save-wins is acceptable for Phase 1.\i0\par}

  {\pard\sb0\sa0\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf6\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 5. Implementation Tasks\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 1: Database Schema\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Create a \f1 shares\f0  table with the following structure:\par}
  {\pard\li360\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 CREATE TABLE shares (\line   id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),\line   resource_type VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,  -- 'transcript' or 'folder'\line   resource_id UUID NOT NULL,\line   owner_id UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,\line   shared_with_id UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,\line   permission VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'view',  -- 'view' or 'edit'\line   created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT NOW(),\line   updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT NOW(),\line   UNIQUE(resource_type, resource_id, shared_with_id)\line );\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 Required indexes:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 (shared_with_id)\f0  \emdash  fast lookup for "Shared with Me" queries\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 (resource_type, resource_id)\f0  \emdash  fast lookup for "who has access to this resource"\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 (owner_id)\f0  \emdash  list everything I\rquote ve shared\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 2: Sharing API Endpoints\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Build CRUD routes under \f1 /api/shares\f0 :\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b POST /api/shares\b0  \emdash  Create a share. Body: \f1 \{resource_type, resource_id, email, permission\}\f0 . Validate: requesting user owns the resource, recipient email exists in \f1 users\f0  table, recipient is not the owner (no self-sharing).\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b GET /api/shares/:resourceType/:resourceId\b0  \emdash  List all shares for a resource. Returns shared users with name, email, permission. Only the owner can call this.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b PATCH /api/shares/:shareId\b0  \emdash  Update permission level. Body: \f1 \{permission\}\f0 . Owner only.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b DELETE /api/shares/:shareId\b0  \emdash  Revoke a share. Owner only.\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 3: "Shared with Me" API\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Add endpoint:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b GET /api/shares/shared-with-me\b0  \emdash  Returns all resources shared with the current user. Join with \f1 users\f0  (owner name), \f1 transcripts\f0  (title, status, duration), and \f1 folders\f0  (name, case number). For shared folders, include child transcripts. Group by sharing user for sidebar display.\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 4: Permission Enforcement on Existing Routes\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Update all data-access routes to check the \f1 shares\f0  table when \f1 user_id\f0  doesn\rquote t match \f1 req.userId\f0 . Create a reusable middleware or helper function:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b checkAccess(userId, resourceType, resourceId)\b0  \emdash  Returns \f1 'owner' | 'edit' | 'view' | null\f0\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Permission matrix:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Owner:\b0  Full access (read, write, delete, share management)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Edit:\b0  Read + write (segment saves, speaker reassignment, annotations). No delete, no share management.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b View:\b0  Read only (view transcript, export). No editing of any kind.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b null:\b0  403 Forbidden.\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Routes that need updating:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 GET /api/transcripts/:id\f0  \emdash  allow view + edit shares\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 GET /api/transcripts/:id/segments\f0  \emdash  allow view + edit shares\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 PUT /api/transcripts/:id/segments\f0  \emdash  allow edit shares only\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 GET /api/transcripts/:id/export\f0  \emdash  allow view + edit shares\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 POST /api/transcripts/:id/summarize\f0  \emdash  allow edit shares only\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 CRUD /api/annotations\f0  \emdash  create/update/delete require edit; read requires view\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \f1 DELETE /api/transcripts/:id\f0  \emdash  owner only (no change needed)\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 For folder shares: when a folder is shared, check folder-level share for any transcript inside that folder. Folder share acts as an inherited permission for all child transcripts.\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 5: Share Management UI\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Add sharing entry points:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Transcript cards\b0  \emdash  Add "Share" option to the context menu or as a toolbar button\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  \b Folder context menu\b0  \emdash  Add "Share Folder" option alongside rename/delete\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Share modal contains:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Email input field with validation\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Permission dropdown (View Only / Can Edit)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  "Share" button to send the invitation\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  List of existing shares showing recipient name, email, permission level\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Per-share actions: change permission dropdown, revoke (X) button with confirmation\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 6: "Shared with Me" Sidebar Section\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 Add a new collapsible section in the sidebar (\f1 Sidebar.tsx\f0 ) below "Cases & Folders":\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Section header: "Shared with Me" with a people/users icon\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Group shared items by the person who shared them (owner name as subheading)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Each shared folder shows folder name + permission badge ("View" / "Edit")\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Each shared transcript shows title + status + permission badge\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Clicking a shared transcript navigates to the transcript viewer\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Clicking a shared folder shows its contents in the dashboard (similar to own folders)\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 Data loaded via the "Shared with Me" API on app mount, stored in \f1 TranscriptContext\f0  alongside existing \f1 transcripts\f0  and \f1 folders\f0  arrays.\par}

  {\pard\sb300\sa100\f0\fs24\b\cf3 Task 7: Viewer/Editor Permission Gating\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 When viewing a shared transcript, the UI must reflect the user\rquote s permission level:\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\b\cf4 View Only:\b0\cf1\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Hide segment edit controls (inline editing, add/delete segment buttons)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Hide speaker reassignment dropdown\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Hide annotation creation (notes, bookmarks)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Hide "Save" button\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Allow: read transcript, play audio, export\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\b\cf4 Can Edit:\b0\cf1\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Show all editing controls\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Hide delete transcript button\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Hide share management button\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 Display a banner or badge at the top of the viewer: \b "Shared by [Owner Name] \emdash  View Only"\b0  or \b "Shared by [Owner Name] \emdash  Can Edit"\b0  so the user always knows their access level.\par}

  {\pard\sb0\sa0\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf6\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 6. Key Files to Modify\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\b\cf3 Backend:\b0\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 server/db.ts\f0  \emdash  Add shares table creation to schema init\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 server/routes/transcripts.ts\f0  \emdash  Permission checks on all transcript routes\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 server/routes/folders.ts\f0  \emdash  Permission checks on folder routes\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 server/routes/annotations.ts\f0  \emdash  Permission checks on annotation CRUD\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 server/middleware/auth.ts\f0  \emdash  Potentially add checkAccess helper\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f1\fs20\cf1 server/routes/shares.ts\f0  \emdash  New file for share CRUD routes\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa100\f0\fs22\b\cf3 Frontend:\b0\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/components/layout/Sidebar.tsx\f0  \emdash  Add "Shared with Me" section\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/components/layout/AppLayout.tsx\f0  \emdash  Handle shared folder/transcript navigation state\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/contexts/TranscriptContext.tsx\f0  \emdash  Store shared items, fetch "Shared with Me" data\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/pages/DashboardPage.tsx\f0  \emdash  Display shared folder contents\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/pages/TranscriptViewerPage.tsx\f0  \emdash  Permission-aware viewer\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/components/transcripts/TranscriptCard.tsx\f0  \emdash  Share option in context menu\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f1\fs20\cf1 src/components/viewer/TranscriptText.tsx\f0  \emdash  Conditional edit controls\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f1\fs20\cf1 src/components/viewer/TranscriptToolbar.tsx\f0  \emdash  Conditional toolbar actions\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 7. Security Considerations\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  All permission checks must happen server-side. Frontend gating is cosmetic only.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  The \f1 checkAccess\f0  helper must be called on every route that accesses transcript or folder data.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Cascade deletes: when a transcript/folder is deleted by the owner, all associated shares are automatically removed.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  When a user account is deleted, all shares they created and all shares shared with them are removed.\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Shared users must not be able to see other shared users\rquote  access. Only the owner sees the full share list.\par}

  {\pard\sb400\sa200\f0\fs28\b\cf2 8. Concurrency Note\par}
  {\pard\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 Phase 1 uses a last-save-wins strategy. If two users with edit access save at the same time, the later save overwrites the earlier one. This is acceptable because:\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Legal transcript editing is typically sequential (one reviewer at a time)\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa60\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  The version history system already preserves previous states\par}
  {\pard\fi-360\li720\sb0\sa200\f0\fs22\cf1 \bullet  Real-time sync adds significant complexity and is deferred to a future phase\par}

  {\pard\sb0\sa0\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf6\par}
  {\pard\sb200\sa100\qc\f0\fs20\cf6 End of Specification\par}
  }